1)Mention the differences between SQL SERVER AND MYSQL.

SQL Server:
Developed by Microsoft
Licensed Software
Doesn't allow any kind of database file manupluation while running.
Allows query cancellation mid-way in the process.
While backing up the database.it doesn't block the database.
Takes a large amount of operational storage space.
Avialable in express and custom mode.

MYSQL:
Developed by Oracle.
Open Source software
Allows database file manuplation while running.
Doesn't allow query cancellation mid-way in the process.
While backing up the databse. It blocks the database.
Takes less amount for operational storage space.
Avilable in MYSQL community edition and MYSQL enterprise edition.

2)What do you understand by SQL Server Agent?
A windows server which is used to schedule jobs and execute jobs.
Here, each job has one or more steps, and each steps contains a task.
The main components of SQL server agent are
Jobs
Schedules
Operators
Alerts

3)Mention the different authentication modes in SQL Server.
Authentication mode is used for authenticating a user in this SQL server.
The authentication mode is selected while setting up a database.
The different authentication modes offer by the server are
1)Windows Authentication Mode
2)Mixed Mode

4)Mention the differences between local and global temporary tables.
Local temporary table:
These tables only exists in the duration of the connection or duration of that statement.
Syntax: CREATE TABLE #<tablename>
Global Temporary Variable:
These tables exists permanently in database and only the rows get deleted when the connection get closed.
SYNTAX: CREATE TABLE ##<tablename>

5)How can you check the version of SQL server?
SELECT @@VERSION
@@VERSION gives the output as one nvarchar string.

6)What is single-user mode and what are the steps you should follow to start SQL server in single-user mode?
Used when you want to recover data from other database systems or may want to change server configurations.
.The following events occur on starting the databse in single user mode:
A single user connects to the server.
The checkpoint process is not executed since it is executed by default at the start-up.
.To start SQL server in single-user mode use the command
sqlcmd -m
.To connect through the query editor in management studio use:
-m"Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio - Query"

7)What is SQL server profiler?
An interface used to create and manage traces. It also analyses and replays the trace results.Here, events are saved in a trace file which later analysed or used to replay a specific series of steps while debugging an issue.

You can use SQL server profiler for activities such as:
Finding the root cause of problem
Monitoring the performance of the sql server.
Diagnosing the slow querys
Capturing a series of SQL statements causing problem.
Helps in correlating performance counters to debug issues.

8)What is the TCP/IP port on which SQL server runs?
1433

9)What are subqueries in SQL server?Explain its properties?
A subquery is a query inside another query where a query is defined to retrive data or information back from the database.
In a subquery, the outer query is called as the main query whereas inner query is called subquery.
Subquerys are always executed first and the result of the subquery is passed on to the main query.
It can be nested inside a SELECT,UPDATE or any other query.
A subuery can also use any comparison operators such as >,< or =.

10)How do you start single user mode in clustered installations?
Go to advanced properties and remove -m startup parameter.
Now, put the SQL server resource offline.
Issue the following command from the command prompt and make sure you are at the current owner node of the group:
net start MSSQLSERVER /m
Next you want to verify from the cluster administrator or failover cluster management console that SQL resource is still offline or not.
Then connect to the SQL server by using the following command and do the required operation.
SQLCMD -E -S<servername>
once an operation is complete, you have to close the command prompt and then bring back the sql and other resources online through cluster administrator

11)What do you understand by replication in SQL server?mention the different types of replication in SQL server?
A process to synchronize the data across multiple servers.This is genarally done by replica set, and these sets provide multiple copies of data with redundancy and high avilability on different servers.